mobility in developing world cities is a
very peculiar challenge because
different from health for the education
or housing it tends to get worse as
societies become richer clearly an
unsustainable model mobility as most
other developing country problems more
than a matter of money or technology is
a matter of equality equity the great
inequality in developing countries makes
it difficult to see for example that in
terms of transport an advanced city is
not one where even the poor use cars but
rather one would even the rich use
public transport or bicycles for example
in Amsterdam more than 30 percent of the
population uses bicycles despite the
fact that the Netherlands has a higher
income per capita than the United States
there is a conflict in developing world
cities for money for government
investment if more money is invested in
highways of course there is less money
for housing for schools for hospitals
and also there is a conflict for space
there is a complex for space between
those with cars and those without them
most of us accept today that private
property and market economy is the best
way to manage most of society's
resources however there is a problem
with that that market economy needs
inequality of income in order to work
some people must make more money so much
less some companies succeed or fail then
what kind of equality can we hope for
today with market economy I will propose
two kinds which both have much to do
with City the first one is equality of
quality of life especially for children
that all children shall have beyond the
obvious health or education
access to green spaces to sports
facilities to swimming pools to music
lessons and the second kind of equality
is one which we could call democratic
equality the first article in every
constitution states that all citizens
are equal before the law that is not
just poetry is a very powerful principle
for example if that is true a boss with
80 passengers has a right to 80 times
more Road space than a car with one we
have been so used to inequality
sometimes that is before our noses and
we do not see it less than 100 years ago
women could not vote and it seemed
normal in the same way that it seems
normal today to see a boss in traffic in
fact when I became mayor applying that
Democratic principle that public good
preventable private interests that a
boss with a hundred people has a right
to a hundred times more Road space on a
car we implemented a mass transit system
based on bosses on exclusive lanes we
call the TransMilenio in order to make
bosses sexier and one thing is that is
also a very beautiful democratic symbol
because as bosses zoom by expensive cars
talking traffic it clearly is almost a
picture of democracy at work in fact is
not just a matter of equity
it doesn't take PhDs a committee of 12
year-old children would find out in 20
minutes that the most efficient way to
use scarce road space is with exclusive
lanes for bosses in fact bosses are not
sexy but they are the only possible
means to bring mass transit to all areas
of fast-growing developing cities they
also have great capacity for example
this system in Guangzhou is more
more passengers our direction than all
subway lines in China except for one
line in Beijing at a fraction of the
cost
we fought not just for space for bosses
but we fought for space for people and
that was even more difficult see these
are human habitats and we humans are
pedestrians just as fish need to swim or
birds need to fly or deer need to run we
need to walk that is a really enormous
conflict when we are talking in
developing country cities between
pedestrians and cars here what would you
see is a picture that shows insufficient
democracy what this shows is that people
who walk are third class citizens while
those who go in cars are first class
citizens in terms of transport
infrastructure what really makes a
difference between advance and backward
cities is not highways or Subway's but
quality sidewalks here they made a
flyover probably very useless and they
forgot to make a sidewalk this is
prevalent all over the world not even
schoolchildren are more important than
cars in my city of Bogota we fought a
very difficult battle in order to take
space from cars which had been parking
on sidewalks for decades in order to
make space for people that should
reflect dignity of human beings and to
make space for protected bikeways first
of all I have a black hair before that
and I was almost in peach in the process
it is a very difficult battle however it
was possible finally after very
difficult battles to make a city that
will reflect some respect for human
dignity that will show that those who
worked are equally important to those
who have cars indeed are very important
ideologically and politically if you
anywhere is how to distribute that most
valuable resource of a city which is
road space a city would could find oil
or diamonds on the ground and it would
not be so valuable as rose
face how to distribute it between
pedestrians bicycles public transport
and cars this is not a technological
issue and we should remember that in no
Constitution parking is a constitutional
right when we make the distribution we
also build and this was 15 years ago
before they were bike ways in New York
or in Paris or in London it was a very
difficult battle as well
more than 350 kilometers of protected
bicycle waste
I don't think protected bicycle ways are
acute architectural feature they are all
right justice sidewalks are unless we
believe that only those with access to a
motor vehicle have a right to save
mobility without the risk of getting
killed and just as both ways are
protected bikeways also are a powerful
symbol of democracy because they show
that a citizen on a thirty dollar
bicycle is equally important to one on a
$30,000 car and we are living in a
unique moment in history in the next 50
years more than half of those cities
which will exist in the year 2060 will
be built in many developing countries
cities more than 80 and 90 percent of
the city which will exist in the year
2060 will be built or the next four or
five decades but this is not just a
matter for developing country cities in
the United States for example more than
70 million new homes must be built over
the next 40 or 50 years that's more than
all the homes that today exist in
Britain France and Canada put together
and I believe that our cities today have
severe flaws and that different better
ones could be built what is wrong with
our cities today well for example if we
tell any three-year-old child who's
barely learning to speak in any city in
the world watch out a car the child will
jump in fright and with a very good
reason because there are more than 10
thousand children who are killed by cars
every year in the world we have had CDs
for 8,000 years and children could walk
out of home and play in fact only very
recently towards 1900 there were no cars
car have been here for really less than
a hundred years they completely changed
cities in 1900 for example nobody was
killed by cars in the United States only
20 years later between 1920 and 1930
almost 200,000 people were killed by
cars in the United States only in 1925
almost 7,000 children were killed by
cars in the United States so we could
make different cities cities that will
give more priority to human beings than
to cars that would give more public
space to human beings and to cars
cities that should show great respect
for those most vulnerable citizens such
as children or the elderly I will
propose to you a couple of ingredients
which I think would make cities much
better and it would be very simple to
implement them in the new cities which
are only being created hundreds of
kilometers of greenways crisscrossing
cities in all directions children would
walk out of home into safe spaces they
could go for dozens of kilometres safely
without any risk in wonderful green
waste sort of bicycle highways and I
would invite you to imagine the
following a city in which every other
Street would be a street only for
pedestrians and bicycles in new cities
which are going to be built this would
not be particularly difficult when I was
mayor Bogota in only three years we were
able to create 70 kilometers in one of
the most dense cities in the world of
this bicycle highways and the changes
the way people live move
enjoy the city in this picture you see
we're not very poor neighborhood we have
a luxury pedestrian bicycle suite and
the car's still in the mud of course I
would love to pave this street for cars
well what do we do first 99% of people
in those neighborhoods don't have cars
but you see when a city is only being
created is very easy to incorporate this
kind of infrastructure then the city
grows around it and of course this is
just a glimpse of something which could
be much better if we just create and it
changed the way of life and the second
ingredient which would solve mobility
that very difficult challenge in
developing countries it in a very
low-cost and simple way would be to have
hundreds of kilometers of streets only
for bosses bosses on bicycles and
pedestrians this would be again a very
low-cost solution if implemented from
the start low cost Pleasant transit with
natural sunlight well but unfortunately
reality is not as good as my dreams
because of private property of land and
high land prices all developing country
cities have a large problem of slums in
my country of Colombia almost half the
homes in cities initially were illegal
developments and of course it's very
difficult to have mass transit or to use
bicycles in such environments but even
legal developments had also been located
in the wrong places very far from the
city centers where it's impossible to
provide low-cost high-frequency public
transport as a Latin American and Latin
America was the most recently organized
region in the world I would recommend
respectfully passionately to those
countries which are here to urbanize
Latin America went from 40 percent urban
in 1952
80% urban in 2010 I will recommend Asian
and African countries which are yet to
urbanized such as India which is only 33
percent urban now that government should
acquire all land around cities in this
way their cities could grow in the right
places with the right spaces with parts
with the Green was in the bus ways the
cities were going to build over the next
50 years will determine quality of life
and even happiness for billions of
people so for the future
what a fantastic opportunity for leaders
and many young leaders to come
especially in the developing countries
they can create a much happier life for
billions towards the future I am sure I
am optimist that they will make cities
better than our most ambitious dreams
[Applause]
[Music]